Like you learned in the last video that differential privacy is a technique that allows
data analysts to gain insights from information
by allowing the information of an individual to stay private.
Now, this is done by injecting
random noise into the data set so it cannot be traced back.
Let us now look at how this is done using a good sample.
So, in this experiment what we're doing is that we are trying to
measure the percentage of users on the Internet who what actually dogs,
funny experiment but yeah.
So, real dogs would like to remain anonymous.
So, we do have real information available on
the real number of people and also the real number of dogs.
So, this is real information, we know that.
So, what we're trying to do is we have real information.
We're also going to calculate the information using
differential privacy and then we're
going to see how close these numbers are to each other.
So, these are the real numbers.
So, we know that the real number of people online
are 90 and the real number of dogs online,
who are going to be entering a survey,
are 10. So good.
I'm going to talk about this in just a second but again
what we're doing is that I wanted to show you.
I'm going to run this code this way but I'm also going to
show you that once you increase the population size.
So, if you see all this is doing is that for now
the flag is set to false but when I increase
the population size and make this to true that means
the number of people is quite a bit more number of dogs is quite a bit more.
You'll see that how the size of the data set,
the accuracy increases and the randomness decreases.
We'll do that in just a second but let's walk through what's going on here.
So, this is a function called answer and what this function is
doing is just like a random number generator between zero and one.
There is a 50 percent chance it is less than 0.5 and so,
what's happening here is that you're actually looping through all the dogs.
So, you're going to go from zero to number of
dogs and you're going to pass and answer true,
okay and then we're also going to look for all the number of people
and pass for whoever says that they're wrong information,
you're going to pass false because they're not dogs.
So, we're passing, all we're doing is that we are calling this function.
So, remember we talked about flipping a coin,
50 percent chance and then you flip it further that further reduces to another 25, 25.
So, it pretty much starts going on,
again the code isn't that important over here.
This is just a sample code comes from a lot of statistical calculations but again,
the main thing I wanted to show you is that you can actually calculate this way keep
information private and as the data set size increases, the randomness decreases.
So, that's important. If you really don't understand
this code too much in detail, that's perfectly fine.
That's not the focus is right now.
So, we're calling this function, just to reiterate,
we're calling this function for the number of dogs.
We're also calling for the number of people and then we're increasing it.
So, what we're doing is that we are putting some noise through
this function and then we are increasing the total.
So, the total is just calculating the number of dogs.
We are starting with zeros,
every time it outputs.
So, again we're calling this function with either true or
false and then we call the random function, remember.
This is just like flipping a coin.
So, it's 0.5 that means 50 percent chance it's going to come here,
50 percent chance it's going to move in this function.
Okay, got it, 50 percent chance.
Again, remember same thing flip a coin and then
you further flip a coin. So, that's what's happening.
You call this function 50 percent chance and then you
further call this function again decreases the chance.
So, that's what we're doing. Then this is the final,
so we keep adding total.
Again that's the estimate,
so 50 percent of the answers are going to be true and the other 50 percent
have a probability of being true and a 50 percent probability of being false.
So, that's where the 0.25 comes from.
So, it's you're further dividing it down and then,
since it's two times,
so you're going to have to multiply by two.
Again, like I said, if you don't understand this equation,
this is coming from a lot of statistical calculations but this
is a simple formula that's used to calculate differential privacy.
So, you can use this and then in this function,
we're just converting into percentage.
I'm trying to do console.log,
seeing what is the actual percentage.
We know the actual percentage is 10 percent.
Yeah and we're also going to see what
the differential private estimate of dogs in the internet is.
So, now lets save our file and run our code and see what we get.
So, if you see it says the actual percent of dogs on
the Internet is ten percent, which is true.
The differentially private estimate of dogs on
the internet is 14 percent. Let me show you.
So, since it's random noise,
you will see that this changes.
So, if I run this function again,
you're going to get 10 percent. It gets very close.
Ten percent, 20 percent.
Just because the data set is small,
the noise is, of course,
it's going to be a little bit too much.
That is wanting to show, so that your answer does change,
fluctuate quite a bit based upon your data's insights.
So now, let's make that flag true and see what changes.
So, we're going to go back to our code, here.
So again, all this function is doing is just adding
noise in the information so that you cannot trace it back.
So now, let's increase our population size and I'm
just going to make this flag true and once I make this flag true.
So, if you see the number of people now gets multiplied by 10,000,
so did the number of dogs.
So, save this file and you'll see how
the randomness decreases because the size of the data set increases.
So, let's go run it.
Let me clear this.
So, now you see how close it is and if I run this function multiple times,
you will see that how close this information stays every time.
So, the actual percentage is 10 percent,
differentially private estimate is 10.12 percent.
Let's run it again, 9.87 percent.
If you saw the last time,
there was quite a bit of discrepancy.
Every time we were running just because the data set increases
the noise is going to decrease.
So, if you see every time I run it,
it's very close to the real value of 10 percent.
So, that is how you do differential privacy, again like I said,
it's a lot of functions, especially, in cryptography.
A lot of helpful benefits you can have for that and again,
it's just a technique that allows data analysts to gain insight from
information while allowing the information of an individual to stay private.
So, in this case, you cannot really trace back who answered what,
just because you're generating or adding some noise in there.
So, just by injecting some random noise into the data set.